FF130 CSP report-to directive (#35331)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/content-security-policy/report-to/index.md

> {{HTTPSidebar}}

Author: This doc was all screwed up - it reflected the `Report-To` HTTP header, not the CSP directive.

## Syntax

```http

> Content-Security-Policy: …; report-to <endpoint_name>

Author: Can we have multiples of these? I mean can we report the same violations to multiple places as a backup?

Author: @chrisdavidmills 

I know you can use `Report-To` to define an endpoint name that maps to a number of URLs. The original docs suggested using that as a way to send reports to a backup endpoint.
However `Report-To` is deprecated, and hence on path for removal. 

So to clarify my question: 
- Can you defined multiple reporting end points using `Reporting-Endpoints` to get the same functionality as Report-To - sending the same report to multiple endpoints.
- If not, why is this not needed.

This is mostly an FMI thing, and doesn't really need to be covered.

```

`<endpoint_name>` is the name of an endpoint provided by the {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} HTTP response header.

> > [!NOTE]

Author: Note, removed all the `Report-To` stuff other than this note. People shouldn't use it, but I wanted to make clear that it could be used, to remove misunderstandings I had from all these docs.

## Syntax

```http
Content-Security-Policy: …; report-to <endpoint_name>
```

`<endpoint_name>` is the name of an endpoint provided by the {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} HTTP response header.

> 
> The endpoint name can also be the name of a group that is provided by the server in the {{HTTPHeader("Report-To")}} {{deprecated_inline}} HTTP response header, but this header is deprecated and should not be used.

Author: ```suggestion
It can also be the name of a group that is provided by the server in the {{HTTPHeader("Report-To")}} {{deprecated_inline}} HTTP response header.
```

### Violation report syntax

> A CSP violation report is a JSON-serialized version of the {{domxref("Report")}} object, with a `type` property that has a the value `"csp-violation"`, and a `body` that is the serialized form of a {{domxref("CSPViolationReportBody")}} object (see the respective objects for their property definitions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A CSP violation report is a JSON-serialized {{domxref("Report")}} object instance, with a `type` property that has a value of `"csp-violation"`, and a `body` that is the serialized form of a {{domxref("CSPViolationReportBody")}} object (see the respective objects for their property definitions).
```

> Reports are sent to the target endpoint in a POST operation with the {{HTTPHeader("Content-Type")}} of `application/reports+json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reports are sent to the target endpoint(s) via a `POST` operation with a {{HTTPHeader("Content-Type")}} of `application/reports+json`.
```

    "documentURL": "https://example.com/csp-report",
    "effectiveDirective": "script-src-elem",
    "lineNumber": 121,
    "originalPolicy": "default-src 'self'; report-to csp-endpoint-name",
    "referrer": "https://www.google.com/",
    "sample": "console.log(\"lo\")",
    "sourceFile": "https://example.com/csp-report",
    "statusCode": 200
  },
  "type": "csp-violation",
  "url": "https://example.com/csp-report",
  "user_agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/127.0.0.0 Safari/537.36"
}
```

## Usage notes

The `report-to` directive is intended to replace `report-uri`, and browsers that support `report-to` ignore the `report-uri` directive.
However, until `report-to` is broadly supported you can specify both headers as shown:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: …; report-uri https://endpoint.example.com; report-to endpoint_name
```

Note that other examples in this topic do not show `report-uri`.

## Examples

### Setting a CSP violation report endpoint

A server can define the mapping between endpoint names and URLs using the {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} header in the HTTP response.

> Any name can be used: here we've chosen "name-of-endpoint".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any name can be used: here we've chosen `name-of-endpoint`.
```

```http
Reporting-Endpoints: name-of-endpoint="https://example.com/csp-reports"
```

> The server can set this an endpoint name as the target for sending CSP violation reports using the `report-to` directive as shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server can set this endpoint name as the target for sending CSP violation reports to using the `report-to` directive:
```

`<endpoint_name>` is the name of an endpoint provided by the {{HTTPHeader("Reporting-Endpoints")}} HTTP response header.

It can also be the name of a group provided in the {{HTTPHeader("Report-To")}} {{deprecated_inline}} HTTP response header, but this header is deprecated and should not be used.

> ## Usage notes

Author: I wanted to add this section here as a section so it can easily be deleted in future :-)
